# Hello Events Installer

These scripts provision the structures and data needed for the Hello Events solution to work on a site, it uses the the PnP Provisioning Engine.

## Prerequisites

* Install the [PnP ProwerShell](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/sharepoint/sharepoint-pnp/sharepoint-pnp-cmdlets?view=sharepoint-ps#installation)

For example, this would install the PnP PowerShell for SharePoint online on your local system:

```PowerShell
Install-Module SharePointPnPPowerShellOnline
```

The installer uses a few commands directly from the PnP PowerShell and the PnP Provisioning Engine, which is also available from the PnP PowerShell. For an introduction about the PnP Provisioning Engine see [PnP remote provisioning](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/solution-guidance/pnp-remote-provisioning).

* Organise an user which is site collection administrator in order to connect to SharePoint. It could be a tenant administrator for development. The credentials will be requested by the installer scripts.

## Applying the Provisioning Template

In short, execute the PowerShell script [`set-template.ps1`](./set-template.ps1) to apply the templates to the given site.

For details see the scripts, template files and data files here and the other sections within this document.

## Creating the Provisioning Template

The site columns, site content types and lists are defined in a provisioning template. This template can be generated based on the structures of a given site and saved on a file for later use.

The script [`save-template.ps1`](./save-template.ps1) generates this template file.

Template file: [`hello-events-template.xml`](./hello-events-template.xml)

Note: as the template file is already part of the installer there is no need to execute this script everytime again.

### Content Types for the Template

It is possible to specify the content type groups of the content types to be imported to the template. See the parameter `ContentTypeGroups` for that, ex.:

```PowerShell
Get-PnPProvisioningTemplate -Out $TemplateFilePath -ContentTypeGroups "_Hello Events"
```

### Data Initialization

The default data like list items and files are added in a separeted step to the template, see [`save-template.ps1`](./save-template.ps1) for details.

* Files are referenced by `pnp:File` elements that are generated by the PnP command `Add-PnPFileToProvisioningTemplate`

* List items are stored in `pnp:DataRows` elements that are generated by the PnP command `Add-PnPDataRowsToProvisioningTemplate`. Two strategies were implemented to initialize list items:
  * The items were defined in `pnp:DataRows` elements within the template. In this case, the attribute `KeyColumn` was used to inform the column that matched the existing items so that the same items would not be created everytime the template is applied. Ex.: `<pnp:DataRows KeyColumn="Title" UpdateBehavior="Overwrite">` would match the values of the Title column in the template with the Title values on the target list.
  * The items were defined in a separeted template file. This makes easier to apply a custom logic to see if the items should be initialized or not. See the template file [`events-data.xml`](./events-data.xml) for an example. The disvantage of this strategy is that it needs the `pnp:ListInstance` element on this separeted template file with some atributes defined eventually again, ex.: `Title="Events Catalog" TemplateType="100" Url="Lists/EventsCatalog"`.

* Files from folders can be also imported using `pnp:Directory` elements, see details about this element below.

## Template Preparation

The saved template is a base for the provisioning, but it has to be manually updated as described below.

### Template Cleanup

After saving the template to a file the out of the box site columns (`Field` elements) and lists (`pnp:ListInstance` elements) should be manually removed from the template file.

Anything else that is not specific to your customization should be questioned if it should remain in the template.

### Removing Default Content Types from the Lists

It is possible to specifiy that content types should be removed from the lists.

The default content types, as for example Item, can be removed from the list instances while they are being created by setting the attribute `RemoveExistingContentTypes` to `"true"`. If this is not done, these content types are created along with the lists, even when they are not specified in the template. Based on our tests and understanding `RemoveExistingContentTypes` just works while the list is being created.

If the idea is to remove the content types also from existing lists, even if an user has added them manually again, then it is required to add the content type to the template with attribute `Remove="true"`. Ex., to remove Item:

```Xml
<pnp:ContentTypeBinding ContentTypeID="0x01" Remove="true"/>
```

This works the same for document libraries and other types of lists with other content types.

### Uploading Files from a Local Folder

It is possible to upload files from a local folder to a library or folder on SharePoint.

Use the `pnp:Directory` for that.

#### Setting Metadata for the Files

The metadata of the files can be set as per a JSON file specified in the attribute `MetadataMappingFile`.

Metadata file example: [`event-images-metadata.json`](./event-images-metadata.json)

The path separator used in the `Src` attribute has to be the same as in the Metadata file (with character escaping), otherwise the mapping does not work. 

Ex., `pnp:Directory` in template and Metadata file - note the paths using backslash (\\):

```Xml
<pnp:Directory Src=".\event-images" Folder="EventContentImages" Overwrite="true"
    Recursive="false" MetadataMappingFile=".\event-images-metadata.json" />
```

```JSON
{".\\event-images\\team-event.png":{"Title":"Team Event"}}
```

#### Avoiding Multiple Creation of the same Items

See the attribute `KeyColumn` as described above.

### Setting the Type of Note Fields

Review if Note fields should be `Compatible` or `FullHTML` in attribute `RichTextMode`.

## Further Reading

* [PnP-Provisioning-Schema](https://github.com/SharePoint/PnP-Provisioning-Schema/): examples and template schema definition
* [PnP remote provisioning](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/dev/solution-guidance/pnp-remote-provisioning)
